The class hierarchy in Java is a hierarchical structure(Tree like Structure) of classes and interfaces, organized based on inheritance and relationships between classes. 
It represents the foundation for object-oriented programming in Java. Below are some main parts of the Java class hierarchy:

1. Object Class :
Root of the Hierarchy: The Object class is the root of the Java class hierarchy. Every class in Java, either directly or indirectly, inherits from the Object class.

Here, I'll explain each of the key methods in the Object class:
1. toString()
2. equals(Object obj)
3. hashCode()
4. getClass()
5. clone()
6. finalize()

1. toString():
	A. public String toString()
	B. Description: Returns a string representation of the object. The default implementation returns the class name followed by the "@" character and the object's hash code.
	C. Useful Scenarios:
		Providing a human-readable representation of an object.
		Useful for debugging and logging.
		
2. equals(Object obj):
	A. public boolean equals(Object obj)
	B. Description: Indicates whether some other object is "equal to" this one. The default implementation compares object references using the == operator.
	C. Useful Scenarios:
		Customizing the equality comparison for objects.
		Overriding this method to provide meaningful comparisons based on object content.
3. hashCode():
	A. public int hashCode()
	B. Description: Returns a hash code value for the object. The default implementation returns the object's memory address as an integer.
	C. Useful Scenarios:
		Providing a hash code for use in hash-based data structures (e.g., HashMap, HashSet).
		Overriding this method to ensure consistency with the equals method.
		
4. getClass():
	A. public Class<?> getClass()
	B. Description: Returns the runtime class of an object as a Class object.
	C. Useful Scenarios:
		Obtaining information about the runtime type of an object.
		Useful for reflection and runtime type checking.
5. clone():
	A. protected Object clone() throws CloneNotSupportedException
	B. Description: Creates and returns a copy of the object. To enable cloning, a class must implement the Cloneable interface, and this method must be overridden.
	C. Useful Scenarios:
		Creating a copy of an object to ensure data integrity.
		Overriding this method to support custom cloning logic.
6. finalize():
	A. protected void finalize() throws Throwable
	B. Description: Called by the garbage collector before an object is reclaimed. This method is called when the object is no longer reachable.
	C. Useful Scenarios:
		Releasing resources or performing cleanup operations before an object is garbage collected.
		Not commonly used due to the unpredictability of when the garbage collector will run.
		
finalize method is depreacted from java9 version	
In programming, the term "method deprecation" refers to marking a method as deprecated, which is a way for developers and API designers to signal that the method is no longer recommended for use. Deprecation is typically used when a method is outdated, may have security issues, or is being replaced by a better alternative.

When a method is deprecated, it means that while the method is still available and functional, developers are encouraged to avoid using it. Instead, they should consider using a different method or adopting a different approach that is recommended by the library or framework.

